README.md, before:

<a name="readme-top"></a>
<!-- TABLE OF CONTENTS -->

# Capstone Metrics Webapp

# 📗 Table of Contents

- [📖 About the Project](#about-project)
  - [🛠 Built With](#built-with)
    - [Tech Stack](#tech-stack)
    - [Key Features](#key-features)
  - [🚀 Live Demo](#live-demo)
- [💻 Getting Started](#getting-started)
  - [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
  - [Setup](#setup)
  - [Install](#install)
  - [Run tests](#run-tests)
  - [Usage](#usage)
- [👥 Authors](#authors)
- [🔭 Future Features](#future-features)
- [🤝 Contributing](#contributing)
- [⭐️ Show your support](#support)
- [🙏 Acknowledgements](#acknowledgements)
- [📝 License](#license)

<!-- PROJECT DESCRIPTION -->

# 📖 Mini World Atlas <a name="about-project"></a>

**Mini World Atlas** is a React mobile web application that allows users to check a list of metrics (numeric values) retrieved from a selected API called REST countries, where you can get information about countries via a RESTful API.

REST Countries API is a RESTful API that provides information about 200+ countries and territories. It is a free and open-source API, and it does not require an API key. The API is based on the JSON (JavaScript Object Notation) format, and it provides information about a country's name, flag, coat of arms, capital, population, area, borders, currencies, languages, and more.

This project was created as part of the Microverse Full-Stack Web Development Program, which is a 12-month program that teaches students the skills they need to become full-stack web developers. The program includes training on a variety of programming tools, such as React, JSX, CSS, and JavaScript.

The webapp has been deployed to Netlify and is now available for you to try. Click the link below to visit the live demo.

## 🛠 Built With <a name="built-with"></a>
* React / Redux
* JSX
* CSS
* Javascript ES6
* Visual Studio Code
* Jest
* React Testing Library
* ESLint
* Stylelint
* Webpack
* Babel
* External API (REST Countries)

<!-- Features -->

### Key Features <a name="key-features"></a>

The key features of this project include the following.

- **Fetchs and displays data from API, which lists almost 200 countries and territories.**
- **Displays the estimated population of the world on the homepage, also directly from the API.**
- **Displays the country detail with their Area, Population, Coat of Arms, Flag, Capital City, Continent, Time Zone, and a 3-letter Country Code.**
- **Uses a mobile web responsive layout format that looks good and are easy to use on mobile devices.**

<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>

<!-- LIVE DEMO -->

## 🚀 Live Demo <a name="live-demo"></a>

- [Live Demo](https://benevolent-crostata-5c4bea.netlify.app/)
- [Video Presentation](https://www.loom.com/share/5aa00e1311db43879505ce828a033304) 

Due to the fact that it is a web app that is not optimized for desktop use, the live demo link is best viewed in mobile mode.

To change the resolution into mobile, you can use the Inspect method which is available in Google Chrome or Microsoft Edge. Here are the following steps:

- Open the live link of the website (listed above). 
- Right click and select *"Inspect"* from the dropdown menu. 
- In the *Inspect* section, select the mobile device you want to simulate from the list.
- You can also change the dimension to **830 x 630** by customizing it on the *Responsive* section.
- The website will now be displayed in the mobile view of the browser.

<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>

<!-- GETTING STARTED -->

## 💻 Getting Started <a name="getting-started"></a>
Get ready to explore Mini World Atlas Webapp with these steps:

### Prerequisites <a name="prerequisites"></a>

Ensure you have:
 - A Web Browser such as Microsoft Edge or Google Chrome 🌐
 - Git 🐙
 - A code editor such as Visual Studio Code 👨‍💻

### Setup <a name="setup"></a>

Use `git clone` to get your local copy of the project.

```bash
git clone https://github.com/katarighe/capstone-metrics-webapp.git
```

### Install <a name="install"></a>

 Run `npm install` to set up the required packages.

```bash
npm install
```

### Run Tests <a name="run-tests"></a>
To run tests run the following command in your terminal
```
 npm test
```

Currently, there are no test scripts available, but the libraries (React Testing Library and Jest) are set up.

You can also check linter errors by running this commands:

```
npx stylelint "**/*.{css,scss}"
```

```
npx eslint "**/*.{js,jsx}"
```

### Usage <a name="usage"></a>

Launch the app with the following command

```
  npm start
```

<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>

<!-- AUTHORS -->

## 👥 Authors <a name="authors"></a>

👤 **Mohamed Aden Ighe**

- GitHub: [@katarighe](https://github.com/katarighe)
- Twitter: [@katarighe](https://twitter.com/katarighe)
- LinkedIn: [@mighe](https://linkedin.com/in/mighe)

<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>

## 🔭 Future Features <a name="future-features"></a>

Here are *some future features* that could be added to the Mini World Atlas Webapp in the future.

- **Interactive maps:** The maps in the Mini World Atlas Webapp will be made more interactive, allowing users to zoom in and out, pan around, and explore different countries in more detail.

- **More detailed country profiles:** The country profiles in the Mini World Atlas Webapp will be expanded to include more information about each country, such as its history, culture, economy, and government.

- **New languages:** The Mini World Atlas Webapp will be translated into more languages, making it accessible to a wider audience.

- **More data sources:** The Mini World Atlas Webapp will be powered by more data sources, providing users with the most up-to-date information about countries.

- **Collaboration tools:** The Mini World Atlas Webapp will be made more collaborative, allowing users to share information and collaborate on projects.

Moreover, here are some other possible features that could be added in the future:

- A **search bar** to make it easier to find information about specific countries.

- The ability to **add notes and comments** to country profiles.

- The ability to **create custom maps**.

- The ability to **export data** from the Mini World Atlas Webapp.

The following are a few ideas for future features that could be added to the Mini World Atlas Webapp. The specific features that are added will depend on the feedback and suggestions of users.

<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>

<!-- CONTRIBUTING -->

## 🤝 Contributing <a name="contributing"></a>

Contributions, issues, and feature requests are welcome!

Feel free to check the [issues page](../../issues/).

<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>

<!-- SUPPORT -->

## ⭐️ Show your support <a name="support"></a>

Give a star⭐️ or a thumbs up 👍 if you like this project! You can visit my GitHub profile for more of my projects.

<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>

<!-- ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS -->

## 🙏 Acknowledgments <a name="acknowledgements"></a>

- Project supervised by [Microverse](https//www.microverse.org/)
- [Creative Commons 4.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc/4.0/)
- [REST Countries API](https://restcountries.com/)

<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>

<!-- LICENSE -->

## 📝 License <a name="license"></a>

This project is [MIT](./LICENSE) licensed.

<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>

Commit message:

Add atributions to the original design

README.md, after:

<a name="readme-top"></a>
<!-- TABLE OF CONTENTS -->

# Capstone Metrics Webapp

# 📗 Table of Contents

- [📖 About the Project](#about-project)
  - [🛠 Built With](#built-with)
    - [Tech Stack](#tech-stack)
    - [Key Features](#key-features)
  - [🚀 Live Demo](#live-demo)
- [💻 Getting Started](#getting-started)
  - [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
  - [Setup](#setup)
  - [Install](#install)
  - [Run tests](#run-tests)
  - [Usage](#usage)
- [👥 Authors](#authors)
- [🔭 Future Features](#future-features)
- [🤝 Contributing](#contributing)
- [⭐️ Show your support](#support)
- [🙏 Acknowledgements](#acknowledgements)
- [📝 License](#license)

<!-- PROJECT DESCRIPTION -->

# 📖 Mini World Atlas <a name="about-project"></a>

**Mini World Atlas** is a React mobile web application that allows users to check a list of metrics (numeric values) retrieved from a selected API called REST countries, where you can get information about countries via a RESTful API.

REST Countries API is a RESTful API that provides information about 200+ countries and territories. It is a free and open-source API, and it does not require an API key. The API is based on the JSON (JavaScript Object Notation) format, and it provides information about a country's name, flag, coat of arms, capital, population, area, borders, currencies, languages, and more.

This project was created as part of the Microverse Full-Stack Web Development Program, which is a 12-month program that teaches students the skills they need to become full-stack web developers. The program includes training on a variety of programming tools, such as React, JSX, CSS, and JavaScript.

The webapp has been deployed to Netlify and is now available for you to try. Click the link below to visit the live demo.

## 🛠 Built With <a name="built-with"></a>
* React / Redux
* JSX
* CSS
* Javascript ES6
* Visual Studio Code
* Jest
* React Testing Library
* ESLint
* Stylelint
* Webpack
* Babel
* External API (REST Countries)

<!-- Features -->

### Key Features <a name="key-features"></a>

The key features of this project include the following.

- **Fetchs and displays data from API, which lists almost 200 countries and territories.**
- **Displays the estimated population of the world on the homepage, also directly from the API.**
- **Displays the country detail with their Area, Population, Coat of Arms, Flag, Capital City, Continent, Time Zone, and a 3-letter Country Code.**
- **Uses a mobile web responsive layout format that looks good and are easy to use on mobile devices.**

<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>

<!-- LIVE DEMO -->

## 🚀 Live Demo <a name="live-demo"></a>

- [Live Demo](https://benevolent-crostata-5c4bea.netlify.app/)
- [Video Presentation](https://www.loom.com/share/5aa00e1311db43879505ce828a033304) 

Due to the fact that it is a web app that is not optimized for desktop use, the live demo link is best viewed in mobile mode.

To change the resolution into mobile, you can use the Inspect method which is available in Google Chrome or Microsoft Edge. Here are the following steps:

- Open the live link of the website (listed above). 
- Right click and select *"Inspect"* from the dropdown menu. 
- In the *Inspect* section, select the mobile device you want to simulate from the list.
- You can also change the dimension to **830 x 630** by customizing it on the *Responsive* section.
- The website will now be displayed in the mobile view of the browser.

<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>

<!-- GETTING STARTED -->

## 💻 Getting Started <a name="getting-started"></a>
Get ready to explore Mini World Atlas Webapp with these steps:

### Prerequisites <a name="prerequisites"></a>

Ensure you have:
 - A Web Browser such as Microsoft Edge or Google Chrome 🌐
 - Git 🐙
 - A code editor such as Visual Studio Code 👨‍💻

### Setup <a name="setup"></a>

Use `git clone` to get your local copy of the project.

```bash
git clone https://github.com/katarighe/capstone-metrics-webapp.git
```

### Install <a name="install"></a>

 Run `npm install` to set up the required packages.

```bash
npm install
```

### Run Tests <a name="run-tests"></a>
To run tests run the following command in your terminal
```
 npm test
```

Currently, there are no test scripts available, but the libraries (React Testing Library and Jest) are set up.

You can also check linter errors by running this commands:

```
npx stylelint "**/*.{css,scss}"
```

```
npx eslint "**/*.{js,jsx}"
```

### Usage <a name="usage"></a>

Launch the app with the following command

```
  npm start
```

<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>

<!-- AUTHORS -->

## 👥 Authors <a name="authors"></a>

👤 **Mohamed Aden Ighe**

- GitHub: [@katarighe](https://github.com/katarighe)
- Twitter: [@katarighe](https://twitter.com/katarighe)
- LinkedIn: [@mighe](https://linkedin.com/in/mighe)

<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>

## 🔭 Future Features <a name="future-features"></a>

Here are *some future features* that could be added to the Mini World Atlas Webapp in the future.

- **Interactive maps:** The maps in the Mini World Atlas Webapp will be made more interactive, allowing users to zoom in and out, pan around, and explore different countries in more detail.

- **More detailed country profiles:** The country profiles in the Mini World Atlas Webapp will be expanded to include more information about each country, such as its history, culture, economy, and government.

- **New languages:** The Mini World Atlas Webapp will be translated into more languages, making it accessible to a wider audience.

- **More data sources:** The Mini World Atlas Webapp will be powered by more data sources, providing users with the most up-to-date information about countries.

- **Collaboration tools:** The Mini World Atlas Webapp will be made more collaborative, allowing users to share information and collaborate on projects.

Moreover, here are some other possible features that could be added in the future:

- A **search bar** to make it easier to find information about specific countries.

- The ability to **add notes and comments** to country profiles.

- The ability to **create custom maps**.

- The ability to **export data** from the Mini World Atlas Webapp.

The following are a few ideas for future features that could be added to the Mini World Atlas Webapp. The specific features that are added will depend on the feedback and suggestions of users.

<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>

<!-- CONTRIBUTING -->

## 🤝 Contributing <a name="contributing"></a>

Contributions, issues, and feature requests are welcome!

Feel free to check the [issues page](../../issues/).

<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>

<!-- SUPPORT -->

## ⭐️ Show your support <a name="support"></a>

Give a star⭐️ or a thumbs up 👍 if you like this project! You can visit my GitHub profile for more of my projects.

<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>

<!-- ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS -->

## 🙏 Acknowledgments <a name="acknowledgements"></a>

- Project supervised by [Microverse](https//www.microverse.org/)
- [Creative Commons 4.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc/4.0/)
- [REST Countries API](https://restcountries.com/)
- Original design theme is by [Nelson Sakwa on Behance](https://www.behance.net/sakwadesignstudio)
- [Link to the original design theme](https://behance.net/gallery/31579789/Ballhead-App-%28Free-PSDs%29) by Nelson Sakwa

<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>

<!-- LICENSE -->

## 📝 License <a name="license"></a>

This project is [MIT](./LICENSE) licensed.

<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>
